Archive-Name: music/galaxie-500-faq
Posting-Frequency: monthly
Last-modified: 15th April 1999
URL: http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.txt

    The Galaxie 500 and related artists FAQ
    Compiled by Andy Aldridge

About this FAQ
    The latest version of this FAQ is always available on the WWW
        http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.txt

    Any additions, corrections or comments should be mailed to
        andy@aald.demon.co.uk for future versions of this FAQ

    For full details of recordings see the Galaxie 500 and related bands
    discography which is currently only available in HTML format.
        http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/discog/

    + = New in this version
    * = Changed in this version
    # = Information required

------------------------------

The Questions

PART I - The artists and the songs

    1  Galaxie 500 and related artists
        1.1  Galaxie 500
        1.2  Luna
        1.3  Magnetophone
        1.4  Pierre Etoile
        1.5  Damon and Naomi
        1.6  Magic Hour
        1.7  Kramer
        1.8  Cagney and Lacee
        1.9  Tuatara

    2  Collaborators
        2.1  Angel Corpus Christi
        2.2  The Pastels
        2.3  The 6ths/Stephen Merritt
        2.4  Pee Shy
        2.5  Mercury Rev
        2.6  Hugh Hopper
        2.7  Mutton Gun
        2.8  Ivy
        2.9  Laetitia Sadier
        2.10 Ralph Carney
        2.11 Sterling Morrison
        2.12 Tom Verlaine
        2.13 Tom Rapp
        2.14 Kickstand
        2.15 Batoh and Kurihara

    3  Cover Versions
        3.1  Galaxie 500
            3.1.1  Don't Let Our Youth Got To Waste
            3.1.2  Isn't It A Pity
            3.1.3  Victory Garden
            3.1.4  Ceremony
            3.1.5  Listen The Snow Is Falling
            3.1.6  Here She Comes Now
            3.1.7  Cheese And Onions
            3.1.8  Final Day
            3.1.9  Rain
        3.2  Luna
            3.2.1  Indian Summer
            3.2.2  That's What You Always Say
            3.2.3  Ride Into The Sun
            3.2.4  Dream Baby Dream
            3.2.5  Bonnie And Clyde
            3.2.6  Thank You For Sending Me An Angel
            3.2.7  No Regrets
            3.2.8  Happy New Year
            3.2.9  Outdoor Miner
            3.2.10 Season Of The Witch
            3.2.11 In The Flesh
            3.2.12 Dance With Me
            3.2.13 Everybody's Talkin'
            3.2.14 Jealous Guy
            3.2.15 Neon Lights
            3.2.16 Sweet Child O' Mine
 
        3.3  Damon & Naomi
            3.3.1  Memories
  #         3.3.2  This Changing World
            3.3.3  Life Will Pass You By
            3.3.4  Who Am I
            3.3.5  Whispering Pines
            3.3.6  Awake In A Muddle
            3.3.7  Spirit Of Love
            3.3.8  Translucent Carriages
            3.3.9  I Shall Be Released
            3.3.10 It's All Over Now Baby Blue
            3.3.11 Yoo Doo Right
        3.4  Magic Hour
            3.4.1  Sally Free And Easy
        3.5  Cagney and Lacee
  #         3.5.1  Time
            3.5.2  Be Mine
            3.5.3  Lovin' You
            3.5.4  Six Feet of Chain
  #         3.5.5  The Last Goodbye
            3.5.6  By The Way
            3.5.7  Greyhound Goin' Somewhere
            3.5.8  For the Sake of the Children
            3.5.9  Memphis
            3.5.10 I'm Not Sayin'
            3.5.11 Borderline

    4  Discography and availability information


PART II - Frequently Asked Questions

    1  Where can I see ... play live?
       When are ... going to play in ...?

    2  Where can I find Galaxie 500/Luna/Damon & Naomi guitar tabs?

    3  Didn't Galaxie 500 do a couple of Peel Sessions?
       Will they ever get released?

    4  Why did Galaxie 500 split?

    5  Why did Stanley Demeski leave Luna?

    6  How can I view the CD-ROM videos that were in the box set?

    7  Haven't I heard ... in a TV commercial?

  + 8  Haven't I heard ... in a film?

    9  What is a Galaxie 500?


PART III - Internet

  * 1  Web Pages

    2  Mailing Lists

    3  Newsgroups


PART IV - Credits

------------------------------

The Answers


PART I - The artists and the songs

    1  Galaxie 500 and related artists
        1.1  Galaxie 500
            Galaxie 500 were a magical three piece comprising of...
            Dean Wareham (guitar/vocals)
            Naomi Yang (bass/vocals)
            Damon Krukowski (drums)

            Seminal is a word often bandied about in describing certain
            influential groups and their works. And sadly, I must use the
            hackneyed word in an attempt to convey the underrated greatness
            that was Galaxie 500. Like the Velvet Underground before them,
            Galaxie 500 didn't have a large contemporary audience, but they
            had a profound effect on almost everyone who listened to them.
            And just as the Velvet Underground are credited as the prodigious
            founders of a new movement in rock and roll, the same can be said
            of Galaxie 500.

            Like contemporaries such as Hugo Largo and the Cowboy Junkies,
            Galaxie 500 took a slower approach to constructing and performing
            their music. And with Shimmy-Disc founder and producer Kramer at
            the helm of the mixing board, Galaxie 500 managed to achieve a
            unique sound that both captivated and repulsed critics and
            reviewers.

            Often brought up in reference to a "slow" movement in rock and
            roll today, bands such as Low, Sugar Plant, and Mazzy Star owe an
            obvious debt to Galaxie 500. Unfortunately, as with many
            intensely creative groups, differences between Dean and Damon &
            Naomi led to their premature disbanding. Dean went on to form
            Luna, and Damon & Naomi continued on together, under the name
            Damon & Naomi.

            Maybe, just maybe, if we're lucky, 20 years from now there will
            be a Galaxie 500 reunion concert (if the VU can do it, so can
            they, damn it!). Until then we have a legacy of three flawless
            albums to get us through.
                                  Gary Ruisinger <gruisinger@CCTR.UMKC.EDU>

        1.2  Luna
            Dean Wareham (guitar/vocals)
            Justin Harwood (bass)
            Sean Eden (guitar)
            Lee Wall (drums)

            After the split Dean Wareham put together Luna, with Justin
            Harwood (bass), formally of excellent New Zealand popsters The
            Chills and Stanley Demeski (drums) ex Feelies, with this line up
            they released their first album (Lunapark), subsequently the line
            up was expanded with the addition of previously unknown guitarist
            Sean Eden to their line up. A deal with major label Elektra saw
            them achieve a modicum of success, and clinched them prestigious
            support slots, most notably on the Velvet Underground's reunion
            tour of 1994. They have also managed to get some equally
            prestigious guest stars on their albums, the late Sterling
            Morrison on Bewitched, and Tom Verlaine on Penthouse.

            In summer 1996 Luna replaced Stanley Demeski with Lee Wall. Lee
            was previously in NYC based band 44, who, as far as I know never
            released anything commercially. He has apparently recently been
            playing with 44's singer/guitarist Mark in the band Champale.

        1.3  Magnetophone
            Sean O'Brien writes...
            The lineup of Magnetophone was:
            Damon Krukowski (guitar/vocals)
            Naomi Yang (bass/vocals)
            Jon Williams (guitar)
            Chris Guttmacher (drums)
            At the time, Chris was also a member of Cul-de-Sac, a band he
            left about a year and a half ago He was also the original drummer
            in Bullet Lavolta. Jon Williams is probably best remembered as
            the original guitarist in Volcano Suns, but is also a very
            prolific producer and engineer. If memory serves, Magnetophone
            played a grand total of about two shows (one of which I saw) here
            in Boston. No recordings were released, although some do exist
            (produced by Jon Willaims) I hope this helps a little.

        1.4  Pierre Etoile
            Before the split of Galaxie 500, Naomi Yang and Damon Krukowski
            recorded an EP as Pierre Etoile (it was actually released shortly
            after Galaxie 500's demise). After Galaxie 500 split they were
            encouraged by Kramer to opt for the less imaginative Damon and
            Naomi for subsequent releases.

        1.5  Damon and Naomi
            Damon Krukowski and Naomi Yang, have now released three exceptional
            albums and a number of equally exceptional singles, which they've
            fitted around their other careers as artists and publishers.

        1.6  Magic Hour
            Magic Hour is a project conceived by ex Crystallized Movements
            members Wayne Rogers and Kate Biggar, who recruited Naomi Yang
            and Damon Krukowski as their rhythm section, they released three
            albums of very long songs, which are of an acquired taste - but
            in my opinion a taste well worth acquiring. After the release of
            the third album in 1996 it was decided that Magic Hour had run
            it's course. Damon & Naomi returned to work as Damon & Naomi, and
            Wayne and Kate became the Major Stars. At the Terrastock festival
            in April 1997 Magic Hour re-united for a special one-off
            performance.

        1.7  Kramer
              (Mark) Kramer is all things to all men...
                Record Company Boss
                    He is the man behind both the Shimmy Disc and Kokopop
                    record labels. He was the owner of Noise New York studio
                    where Galaxie 500 did most of their recording, and is
                    currently the owner of Noise New Jersey.
                Record Producer
                    As well as being the producer of all of Galaxie 500 and
                    Damon and Naomi's records, he has produced an awful lot
                    of the output of Shimmy Disc. Check out Grenadine and
                    Low for starters.
                Recording Artist
                    Kramer has released records as a solo artist; As member
                    of Shockabilly (with Eugene Chadbourne), Bongwater (with
                    actress Ann Magnusson - Bongwater split in 1994 in a very
                    acrimonious manner); and in collaboration with a myriad of
                    other artists including Gong, Hugh Hopper, John Hall,
                    Daevid Allen. He has also toured as a member of the
                    Butthole Surfers. His recorded output is very variable,
                    some of it is exquisite some of it is downright irritating,
                    take your chances.
                    Kramer could quite easily warrant a FAQ all of his own
                    (anyone fancy taking on that task?).

        1.8  Cagney and Lacee
            Cagney and Lacee are Dean Wareham and his wife Claudia Silver,
            they released a single, Time/By The Way (I Still Love You) on No6
            and followed it up with an album Six Feet of Chain, described on
            the cover as "An album of cover versions lovingly performed by
            Dean Wareham and Claudia Silver".

        1.9  Tuatara
            Tuatara are a side project of Justin Harwood's that also features
            Pete Buck of REM (more details to follow)

    2  Collaborators
        2.1  Angel Corpus Christi
            American female singer/accordionist.
            Released single "Je T'aime" with Dean Wareham.

        2.2  The Pastels
            Scottish "indie-pop" band who first came around in the mid 80s.
            They were a big part of the C-86 scene in the UK - along with the
            Wedding Present and the BMX Bandits - and forerunners of the
            so-called "shambling" style: bands who wrote simple, heart-felt
            pop songs, and couldn't play their instruments all that well...the
            Pastels persevered, learned to play, and are generally considered
            grandparents of modern twee/indie-pop.
            Dean Wareham has guested on two Pastel's albums "Mobile Safari"
            and "Illumination".

        2.3  The 6ths/Stephen Merritt
            Stephen Merritt, the man behind the 6ths, is also the man behind
            the excellent Magnetic Fields.

        2.4  Pee Shy
            Pop and poetry collective formed in Florida in 1993.
            Dean Wareham produced Pee Shy's debut Album "Who Let All The
            Monkeys Out".

        2.5  Mercury Rev
            Rock band formed in 1989.
            Guitarist Grasshopper played on Dean Wareham's solo single
            "Anesthesia" and guested as Luna guitarist in the band's initial
            phase.
            Dean Wareham guested on Mercury Rev's "Car Wash Hair" single.

        2.6  Hugh Hopper
            Former member of seventies rock band Soft Machine.
            Naomi Yang co-wrote the Damon & Naomi track "14 Auspicious Dreams"
            with Hugh Hopper.

        2.7  Mutton Gun
            Mutton Gun is/was Justin Harwood, Gordon Rutherford, Justin's
            girlfriend Lisa, David Boyd (Hut Records UK mogul), and his
            girlfriend Sarah.
            Dean Wareham has guested on at least one of Mutton Gun's albums.

        2.8  Ivy
            US based popsters with French lead singer and a couple of albums
            under their belt.
            Dean Wareham guests on their "Apartment Life" album.

        2.9  Laetitia Sadier
            Vocalist from excellent avant garde pop sensations Stereolab.
            Guest vocalist on Luna's "Bonnie and Clyde".

        2.10 Ralph Carney
            A member of Tom Waits' backing band.
            Guested on sax on Galaxie 500's "Decomposing Trees" and on "Blue
            Thunder w/sax".

        2.11 Sterling Morrison
            Guitarist for the Velvet Underground, also worked for a time
            after VU's demise on a tugboat as referenced in the Galaxie 500
            song of that name. Sadly died in 1995
            Guested on "Friendly Advice" and "Great Jones Street" on Luna's
            second album "Bewitched".

        2.12 Tom Verlaine
            A founder member of influential 70s band Television, he has also
            released a number of solo albums.
            Guested on "Moon Palace" and "23 Minutes in Brussels" on Luna's
            third album "Penthouse".

        2.13 Tom Rapp
            Was the founder and main man of late 60s band Pearls Before Swine,
            between 1967 and 1973 he recorded nine albums of strange and
            wonderful folk-rock, at which point he retired from music. He
            was coaxed out of retirement in 1997 for a series of performances
            and has made some new recordings with the help of Damon & Naomi
            for a forthcoming retrospective collection.
            Damon & Naomi performed with Tom Rapp at the 1997 Terrastock
            festival, a track from which is available on the Ptolemaic
            Terrascope celebratory CD, All Access.

        2.14 Kickstand
            Kickstand were a NY/NJ underground pop trio featuring twin sisters
            Tammi & Torry Colichio and independent filmmaker, Jeff Feuerzeig
            (director of the feature length film - Half Japanese: The Band That
            Would Be King).
            Dean Wareham appeared on three tracks on Kickstand's Autostrada
            album.

        2.15 Batoh and Kurihara
            Batoh is the prime mover behind ecxellent Japanese psych-pop outfit
            Ghost, Kurihara is a sometime member of Ghost

    3  Cover Versions
        3.1  Galaxie 500
            3.1.1  Don't Let Our Youth Got To Waste
                   Written by Jonathan Richman, originally recorded by The
                   Modern Lovers. Initially available on "Original Modern
                   Lovers" a collection of demos, a live version is now
                   available on "Precise Modern Lovers Order" (Rounder).

            3.1.2  Isn't It A Pity
                   Written and recorded by George Harrison on the album "All
                   Things Must Pass" (Apple 1970) - which is currently
                   available on a Capitol re-issue.

            3.1.3  Victory Garden
                   Written and originally recorded by Red Krayola on "God
                   Bless The Red Krayola And All Who Sail In Her" (1968)

            3.1.4  Ceremony
                   Written but never released by Joy Division, later recorded
                   by New Order. A live version performed by Joy Division is
                   available on the album "Still"

            3.1.5  Listen The Snow Is Falling
                   Written by Yoko Ono, originally recorded by John Lennon
                   and Yoko Ono as the b-side of "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)"
                   (Apple 1971). Currently available on the Rykodisc re-issue
                   of John and Yoko's "Wedding Album".

            3.1.6  Here She Comes Now
                   Written and originally recorded by The Velvet Underground
                   on the album "White Light/White Heat". Still available.

            3.1.7  Cheese And Onions
                   Written by Neil Innes and originally recorded by spoof
                   Beatles band The Rutles and is available on "The Rutles"
                   (Rhino).

            3.1.8  Final Day
                   Written by Stuart Moxham, originally recorded by Young
                   Marble Giants on a single (Rough Trade). Possibly now
                   available on "Colossal Youth", a compilation of all of
                   their recorded output.

            3.1.9  Rain
                   Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney and originally
                   recorded by the Beatles. Released as the b-side of the
                   "Paperback Writer" single (Parlophone 1966). Currently
                   available on "Past Masters Volume 2" (Capitol).

        3.2  Luna
            3.2.1  Indian Summer
                   Written and originally recorded by Beat Happening on the
                   album "Jamboree" (K 1988). Currently available on a Sub Pop
                   re-issue.

            3.2.2  That's What You Always Say
                   Written by Steve Wynn and originally recorded by Dream
                   Syndicate on "Days Of Wine And Roses". Slash re-issue still
                   available.

            3.2.3  Ride Into The Sun
                   Written by Lou Reed and John Cale, originally recorded by
                   The Velvet Underground. Available on "Another View".

            3.2.4  Dream Baby Dream
                   Written by Martin Rev and Alan Vega, originally recorded by
                   Suicide.

            3.2.5  Bonnie And Clyde
                   Written by Serge Gainsbourg, originally recorded by Serge
                   Gainsbourg and Brigitte Bardot.

            3.2.6  Thank You For Sending Me An Angel
                   Written by David Byrne, originally recorded by Talking
                   Heads on the album "More Songs About Buildings And Food"
                   (Warner 1978). Still available.

            3.2.7  No Regrets
                   Written and originally recorded by Tom Rush. Available on
                   "Circle Game" (Elektra).

            3.2.8  Happy New Year
                   Written and originally recorded by Shockabilly on the album
                   "Heaven" (Fundamental 1985). Possibly still available on a
                   Shimmy Disc re-issue.
                   Shockabilly featured Eugene Chadbourne and Kramer.

            3.2.9  Outdoor Miner
                   Written by Lewis and Colin Newman, originally recorded by
                   Wire on the album "Chairs Missing" (Harvest 1978). Possibly
                   available on an EMI/Harvest re-issue.

            3.2.10 Season Of The Witch
                   Written and originally recorded by Donovan on the album
                   "Sunshine Superman" (1966). Should be available on most
                   cheap Donovan compilations.

            3.2.11 In The Flesh
                   Written by Debbie Harry and Chris Stein, originally recorded
                   by Blondie on the album "Blondie" (Private Stock 1976).
                   Still available on a Chrysalis re-issue.

            3.2.12 Dance With Me
                   Written by Jonathan Richman.

            3.2.13 Everybody's Talkin
                   Written and originally recorded by Fred Neil and recorded
                   since by scores of people from Nillson to The Beautiful
                   South to Leonard Nimmoy.

            3.2.14 Jealous Guy
                   Written and originally performed by John Lennon

            3.2.15 Neon Lights
                   Written and originally recorded by Kraftwerk on their album
                   "The Man Machine" (1978), which is still available.

            3.2.16 Sweet Child O' Mine
                   Written and originally recorded by Guns n' Roses on their
                   album "Appetite For Destruction" (1987) which is still 
                   available.

        3.3  Damon & Naomi
            3.3.1  Memories
                   Written by Hugh Hopper, originally recorded by Soft Machine.

            3.3.2  This Changing World
                   Written by J C Oliver.

            3.3.3  Life Will Pass You By
                   Written by C Darrow, originally recorded by Kaleidoscope.

            3.3.4  Who Am I
                   Written by Joe MacDonald, originally recorded by Country
                   Joe & The Fish.

            3.3.5  Whispering Pines
                   Written by Richard Manuel and Robbie Robertson, originally
                   recorded by The Band, on the album "The Band" (Capitol
                   1969). Still available.

            3.3.6  Awake In A Muddle
                   Written and originally recorded by Ghost.

            3.3.7  Spirit Of Love
                   Written by Clive Palmer, originally recorded by C.O.B.

            3.3.8  Translucent Carriages
                   Written by Tom Rapp (see I/2.13) and recorded by Pearls
                   Before Swine on their second album Balaklava, which is
                   currently availabvle. Also a new version should appear on a
                   Tom Rapp/Pearls Before Swine retrospective due out soon.

            3.3.9  I Shall Be Released
                   Written and originally recorded by Bob Dylan. Currently
                   available on a number of releases including "Greatest Hits
                   Volume 2" and the Dylan and The Band album "Before The
                   Flood".

            3.3.10 It's All Over Now Baby Blue
                   Written and originally recorded by Bob Dylan

            3.3.11 Yoo Doo Right
                   Written and originally recorded by Can

        3.4  Magic Hour
            3.4.1  Sally Free And Easy
                   Written by Cyril Tawney.

        3.5  Cagney and Lacee
            3.5.1  Time
                   (details required)

            3.5.2  Be Mine
                   Written and originally recorded by Martin Rev, on the
                   album "See Me Riding" (ROIR 1995). Still available.

            3.5.3  Lovin' You
                   Written by Ripperton and Rudolph, originally performed by
                   Minnie Ripperton on the album "Perfect Angel". Still
                   available.

            3.5.4  Six Feet of Chain
                   Written and originally performed by Lee Hazlewood on the
                   album "Trouble Is A Lonesome Town" (1963).

            3.5.5  The Last Goodbye
                   (details required)

            3.5.6  By The Way
                   Written and originally performed by Lee Hazlewood on the
                   album "Forty" (1971).

            3.5.7  Greyhound Goin' Somewhere
                   performed by Bobbie Gentry on her 1968 LP "Touch 'Em With
                   Love" on Capitol Records.

            3.5.8  For the Sake of the Children
            3.5.9  Memphis
                   Both of these songs were originally written for the
                   excellent 1975 Robert Altman movie "Nashville", which used
                   a convoluted set of story lines woven around the country
                   music scene in Nashville to satirize American politics,
                   entertainment, and the media culture. The movie was quite
                   funny, acerbic, and sad. "For the Sake of the Children" was
                   sung by actor Henry Gibson, formerly of Laugh-In. In
                   "Nashville" Gibson played diminutive, hypocritical,
                   sequined, hyper-patriotic country music icon Haven Hamilton
                   whose family-values-turned-on-its-head theme song was "For
                   the Sake of the Children (We Must Say Good-Bye)".
                   "Memphis" was actually written by actress Karen Black, who
                   played a second-tier singer destined to serve as perpetual
                   stand-in for emotionally fragile superstar Barbara Jean,
                   another icon who is accidentally assassinated at a political
                   rally at the movie's end.  "Memphis" was generally
                   considered an egregiously bad song written by an amateur
                   whose dislike for country music was evident from the song's
                   sappiness. At the time it was generally thought that Altman
                   let it into the film as an indulgence to Karen Black, but it
                   is certainly a strange choice for a cover.  Back in the 70's
                   there was a soundtrack album to "Nahville", but it's
                   probably long out of print.
                                                 - Bill Jaynes

            3.5.10 I'm Not Sayin'
                   Written and originally performed by Gordon Lightfoot on
                   the album "Lightfoot!" (United Artists 1965). Currently
                   available. More significantly perhaps, however, is that
                   this song was Nico's first single (Immediate 1965).

            3.5.11 Borderline
                   Written by Reggie Lucas and originally performed by Madonna.

    4  Discography and availability information
        The recorded works of all Galaxie 500 related artists, can be found
        in The Galaxie 500 and related bands discography (see PART III/1).

        Galaxie 500
            Rykodisc have all three Galaxie 500 albums plus a box set, a
            compilation album and a very good live set available.

        Damon & Naomi
            All Damon & Naomi albums are available on Sub Pop in the US and on
            Rykodisc in Europe. The Pierre Etoile EP has recently been
            re-issued on CD by Spanish label Elefant.

        Luna
            Luna release their material on Beggars Banquet in the UK and
            Elektra everywhere else in the world - as far as I know all of
            their albums are currently available.

        Magic Hour
            Magic Hour released their material on Che in the UK (first two
            albums only) and Twisted Village in the US, as far as I know all
            three albums are still available.

        Cagney and Lacee
            The Cagney and Lacee material was released on No.6 records and
            should still be available. A limited edition (500 copies) 7"
            single was released by UK independent label Earworm.


PART II - Frequently Asked Questions

    1  Where can I see ... play live?
       When are ... going to play in ...?
            As soon as I hear of any live dates I will put them on the
            Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi web page (see PART III/1)
            and post them on the mailing list (see PART III/2) and on the
            newsgroup alt.music.galaxie-500 (see PART III/3).
            I DO NOT get informed as a matter of course by any of the bands
            and so I rely on people telling me and by keeping an eye on the
            official web pages (see PART III/1). If anyone hears of any dates
            I'd be grateful if you could email them to me so that I can
            notify people via the web page, mailing list and newsgroup.

    2  Where can I find Galaxie 500/Luna/Damon & Naomi guitar tabs?
        The chords to most Galaxie 500, and quite a few Luna tracks are
        available on the Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi web page (see PART
        III/1), you will also find links to other pages that contain tabs
        which I will add as and when I come across them.

    3  Didn't Galaxie 500 do a couple of Peel Sessions?
       Will they ever get released?
        Galaxie 500 recorded two sessions for the John Peel show - the ground
        breaking BBC radio show...

            Recorded  24th September 1989
            Broadcast 17th October 1989
                Flowers
                Blue Thunder
                Decomposing Trees
                Don't Let Our Youth Go To Waste (Richman)

            Recorded  30th October 1990
            Broadcast 4th November 1990
                Moonshot (Buffy St Marie)
                Submission (Sex Pistols)
                When Will You Come Home
                Final Day (Moxham)
                (this version of Final Day has Naomi doing the vocal)

        According to an interview Damon & Naomi gave in Ptolemaic Terrascope
        (issue 23) these will "probably surface at some point".

    4  Why did Galaxie 500 split?
        The generally considered reasoning behind the split was simply that
        Dean Wareham decided he didn't want to be in the band anymore.
        Damon and Naomi gave a very thorough interview in "The Ptolemaic
        Terrascope" magazine (issue 23) where they give their version of
        the events that led to the split. As far as I know Dean hasn't given
        a full public explanation for his decision.

    5  Why did Stanley Demeski leave Luna?
        Stanley's reluctance to tour was the officially given reason for his
        departure from the band - these two quotes from interviews given to
        music magazine "Stomp and Stammer" (http://monsterbit.com/stammer/)
        give a bit more insight into the separation...

            "But I was never really in Luna. I was an employee of the band and
            I made it clear from the beginning that whenever we went on the
            road, I had to be paid. Then, they sort of ran out of money and at
            that point, they just kept bugging me to tour with them but I just
            wasn't that into it to be honest with you."
                        Stanley Demeski - "Stomp & Stammer" - June 1997

            "He didn't like touring I guess that was true with everyone in The
            Feelies, but I got tired of begging and twisting his arm. And it
            was kind of always that way from the beginning, he made that sort
            of clear, that he would rather stay home."
                        Dean Wareham - "Stomp & Stammer - September 1997

    6  How can I view the CD-ROM videos that were in the box set?
        Date: Wed, 2 Apr 1997 14:45:00 -0600
        From: Lars Murray <lmurray@rykodisc.mhub.com>
        Subject: Videos--One More Time

        Amazing how the various myths about the videos persist.

        If anybody is running a G500 FAQ, please include a bit about the
        Rykodisc Enhanced CD page
        (http://www.rykodisc.com/3/central/enhanced.html) All of the existing
        answers are there.

        To debunk some recent misleading info:

        1) The videos are NOT Mac-only. They will play on a
        properly-configured PC (see web page for details).

        2) NET TOOB may display the videos, but it is not a substitute for
        the proper CD-ROM drivers, without which you will not see them. Nor
        is it necessary to use NET TOOB to view them.

        3) The videos are QuickTime, not some proprietary format.

        Enjoy,
        Lars Murray
        Rykodisc

    7  Haven't I heard ... in a TV commercial?
        The Luna track "California (All The Way)" has appeared as the
        soundtrack to at least two TV commercials - Calvin Klein CK1 (in the
        US) and American Express (in the UK).

    8  Haven't I heard ... in a film?
        Galaxie 500 songs have appeared in (unconfirmed)...
            Remembering Sex (aka: Getting Off) (1998 - dir: Julie Lynch)

        Luna songs/music have appeared in the following films...
            I Shot Andy Warhol (1996 - dir: Mary Harron) - Soundtrack available
            Mr Jealousy (1997 - dir: Noah Baumbach) - Soundtrack available
            Thursday (1998 - dir: Skip Woods)
            Irma Vep (1996 - dir: Olivier Assayas)

    9  What is a Galaxie 500?
        It's a make of car. If you're really interested check out this page on
        Yahoo -
     http://www.yahoo.com/Recreation/Automotive/Makes_and_Models/Ford/Galaxie/


PART III - Internet

    1  Web Pages
        The following web pages have Galaxie 500 etc. content.

        Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi
            Excellent (but I would say that!) and thorough web pages with
            full discography, lyrics and the home of this FAQ
                http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/

        Rykodisc's Galaxie 500 web pages
            Very smart web page promoting Rykidisc's re-issue of the
            Galaxie 500 back-catalogue, with a good discography, pictures
            and sounds.
                http://www.rykodisc.com/3/features/g500/
            this page has recently gone AWOL during Ryko's restructuring of
            their web site - an unofficial mirror is available here...
                http://home.inreach.com/jbakken/Galaxie500/

        Damon and Naomi on Sub Pop
            Damon & Naomi's Sub Pop web site has recently been relaunched
            Flashy new graphics and the usual pics and sounds, as well as
            pieces on Galaxie 500, Magic Hour and Exact Change.
                http://www.subpop.com/bands/damon+naomi/newwebsite/

            The old and out of date version is still up and running...
                http://www.subpop.com/bands/damon+naomi/website/

        Javier Balanche's Wondrous Web of Damon &amp; Naomi
            Half finished, graphic intensive and in Spanish D+N web page
                http://www.geocities.com/Paris/Metro/9915/

        Justin Harwood's official site for LUNA Bits and Bobs
            Justin Harwood (Luna band member) has put up an excellent site
            packed with pictures, news and tour information. It also has some
            nice opinion pieces by the band members.
                http://www.fuzzywuzzy.com/

        The ex-official Luna web page
            This site has been officially abandoned and has recently gone AWOL.
                http://www.triangle23.com/luna/

        Chris's Luna discography
            Complete Luna discography with lots of scans. All on one page so
            make a cup of tea while you wait for it to load.
                http://www.teleport.com/~luna/luna/discog.html

        Luna on the Beggars Banquet site
            Small but neat page by Luna's UK record label.
                http://www.beggars.com/luna/luna.html

        Luna on the Elektra site
            Small but neat page by Luna's US/World record label.
                http://www.elektra.com/alternative_club/luna/luna.html

        Magic Hour on the Che site
            This is a neat one page affair with details of record releases.
                http://www.che.co.uk/magichour/index.html

        A collection of links to pages with reviews, interviews and features
        can be found on the links page of the Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon &
        Naomi web site
                http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/links.html


    2  Mailing Lists
        The Galaxie 500 Mailing List has recently moved to a "proper" server
        which means quicker turnaround and easier (un)subscription.
        To subscribe...
            majordomo@listbox.com
            with...
            subscribe galaxie <your email address>
            or
            subscribe galaxie-digest <your email address>
            in the BODY of the email.
        Any problems feel free to email me at andy@aald.demon.co.uk

        On Luna's fuzzywuzzy web page (see above) there is this claim...
            "looking to e-mail the fuzz?? We may not reply but we will add
            your name to our reply-mail list. (shit knows what this will lead
            to)"
        Worth getting on for notifications of updates to the fuzzywuzzy site
        and other Luna info.

    3  Newsgroups
        In the following Newsgroups Galaxie 500 (etc.) discussion is
        acceptable...

        alt.music.galaxie-500
            Pretty low traffic newsgroup covering all things G500 related.

        alt.music.luna
            Newly set-up newsgroup for Luna discussion - pretty slow right
            now but should improve when word gets around.

        both of the above newsgroups have been pretty much nothing but
        spam for a few months now.

        alt.music.independent
            Lively, medium/high traffic newsgroup, with a stress on
            independent, so Luna debate may be frowned upon by Indie
            purists.

        alt.music.alternative
            Very busy newsgroup, and only recommended if you can cope
            with tedious debates about mainstream alternative Rock.


PART IV - Credits

    Thanks to gary <gruisinger@CCTR.UMKC.EDU> for donating a particularly
    good answer for question 1.1, I've never been able to describe
    Galaxie 500.

    Thanks to Sean O'Brien <critual@aol.com> for filling me in on the
    Magnetophone project.

    Thanks to cruster@seanet.com for donating a fine yet concise history
    of The Pastels.

    Thanks to Lars Murray from Rykodisc <lmurray@rykodisc.mhub.com> - for
    explaining the CD-ROM video problem.

    Thanks to Rob Gronette, Steve Beeho, Rhys Davies, Brent Aliverti,
    Jonathan Litchfield, Static50 - for correcting mistakes and filling
    holes.

    Thanks to Bill Jaynes for filling me in on the two songs from the film
    "Nashville" that were covered by Cagney and Lacee, and to Simon Murphy
    for a bit of "Greyhound Goin' Somewhere" info.

    Thanks to the subscribers and contributors of the Galaxie 500 mailing
    list from whom a large chunk of this information was gleaned.

    Please mail me (andy@aald.demon.co.uk) any corrections, additions or
    comments to me for later versions of this FAQ.

-----------------------------

Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 1999 by Andrew Aldridge, all rights reserved.
This FAQ may be freely distributed by any means as long as there is no
    charge (except to cover materials) and that this copyright notice
    remains intact.
This FAQ may not be distributed for financial gain.
This FAQ may not be included in commercial collections or compilations
    without the express permission of the author.

