HTTX 2.0b

URL  : http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.html
Title: Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi


Archive-Name: music/galaxie-500-faq
Posting-Frequency: monthly
Last-modified: 29th January 2000
URL: http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.html


The Galaxie 500 and related artists FAQ

Compiled by Andy Aldridge

About this FAQ

The latest version of this FAQ is always available on the WWW
Text: http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.txt
HTML: http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/galaxie-500-faq.html

Any additions, corrections or comments should be mailed to
andy@aald.demon.co.uk for future versions of this FAQ

For full details of recordings see the Galaxie 500 and related bands
discography - http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/discog/

   o + = New in this version
   o * = Changed in this version
   o # = Information required

----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Questions

  1. The artists and the songs

     1. Galaxie 500 and related artists
        a. Galaxie 500
        b. Luna *
        c. Magnetophone
        d. Pierre Etoile
        e. Damon and Naomi
        f. Magic Hour
        g. Kramer
        h. Cagney and Lacee
        i. Tuatara
     2. Collaborators
        a. Angel Corpus Christi
        b. The Pastels
        c. The 6ths/Stephen Merritt
        d. Pee Shy
        e. Mercury Rev
        f. Hugh Hopper
        g. Mutton Gun
        h. Ivy
        i. Laetitia Sadier
        j. Ralph Carney
        k. Sterling Morrison
        l. Tom Verlaine
        m. Tom Rapp
        n. Kickstand
        o. Batoh and Kurihara
     3. Cover Versions
        a. Galaxie 500
           1. Don't Let Our Youth Got To Waste
           2. Isn't It A Pity
           3. Victory Garden
           4. Ceremony
           5. Listen The Snow Is Falling
           6. Here She Comes Now
           7. Cheese And Onions
           8. Final Day
           9. Rain
        b. Luna
           1. Indian Summer
           2. That's What You Always Say
           3. Ride Into The Sun
           4. Dream Baby Dream
           5. Bonnie And Clyde
           6. Thank You For Sending Me An Angel
           7. No Regrets
           8. Happy New Year
           9. Outdoor Miner
          10. Season Of The Witch
          11. In The Flesh
          12. Dance With Me
          13. Everybody's Talkin'
          14. Jealous Guy
          15. Neon Lights
          16. Sweet Child O' Mine
          17. La Poupee Qui Fait Non #
          18. Fly Into The Sun
        c. Damon & Naomi
           1. Memories
           2. This Changing World #
           3. Life Will Pass You By
           4. Who Am I
           5. Whispering Pines
           6. Awake In A Muddle
           7. Spirit Of Love
           8. Translucent Carriages
           9. I Shall Be Released
          10. It's All Over Now Baby Blue
          11. Yoo Doo Right
          12. After The Goldrush
        d. Magic Hour
           1. Sally Free And Easy
        e. Cagney and Lacee
           1. Time #
           2. Be Mine
           3. Lovin' You
           4. Six Feet of Chain
           5. The Last Goodbye #
           6. By The Way
           7. Greyhound Goin' Somewhere
           8. For the Sake of the Children
           9. Memphis
          10. I'm Not Sayin'
          11. Borderline

     4. Discography and availability information
  2. Frequently Asked Questions

     1. Where can I see ... play live?
        When are ... going to play in ...?
     2. Where can I find Galaxie 500/Luna/Damon & Naomi guitar tabs?
     3. Didn't Galaxie 500 do a couple of Peel Sessions?
        Will they ever get released?
     4. Why did Galaxie 500 split?
     5. Why were Luna called Luna2 (or Luna squared)? +
     6. Why did Stanley Demeski leave Luna?
     7. Haven't I heard ... in a TV commercial?
     8. Haven't I heard ... in a film?
     9. What is a Galaxie 500?
  3. Internet

     1. Web Pages *
     2. Mailing Lists and Message/Bulletin Boards
     3. Newsgroups
  4. Credits

----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Answers

  1. The artists and the songs

     1. Galaxie 500 and related artists
        a. Galaxie 500
            o Dean Wareham (guitar/vocals)
            o Naomi Yang (bass/vocals)
            o Damon Krukowski (drums)

           Seminal is a word often bandied about in describing certain
           influential groups and their works. And sadly, I must use
           the hackneyed word in an attempt to convey the underrated
           greatness that was Galaxie 500. Like the Velvet Underground
           before them, Galaxie 500 didn't have a large contemporary
           audience, but they had a profound effect on almost everyone
           who listened to them. And just as the Velvet Underground
           are credited as the prodigious founders of a new movement
           in rock and roll, the same can be said of Galaxie 500.

           Like contemporaries such as Hugo Largo and the Cowboy
           Junkies, Galaxie 500 took a slower approach to constructing
           and performing their music. And with Shimmy-Disc founder
           and producer Kramer at the helm of the mixing board,
           Galaxie 500 managed to achieve a unique sound that both
           captivated and repulsed critics and reviewers.

           Often brought up in reference to a "slow" movement in rock
           and roll today, bands such as Low, Sugar Plant, and Mazzy
           Star owe an obvious debt to Galaxie 500. Unfortunately, as
           with many intensely creative groups, differences between
           Dean and Damon & Naomi led to their premature disbanding.
           Dean went on to form Luna, and Damon & Naomi continued on
           together, under the name Damon & Naomi.

           Maybe, just maybe, if we're lucky, 20 years from now there
           will be a Galaxie 500 reunion concert (if the VU can do it,
           so can they, damn it!). Until then we have a legacy of
           three flawless albums to get us through.

           Gary Ruisinger <gruisinger@CCTR.UMKC.EDU>

        b. Luna
            o Dean Wareham (guitar/vocals)
            o Matt Quigley (bass)
            o Sean Eden (guitar)
            o Lee Wall (drums)

           After the split Dean Wareham put together Luna, with Justin
           Harwood (bass), formally of excellent New Zealand popsters
           The Chills and Stanley Demeski (drums) ex Feelies, with
           this line up they released their first album (Lunapark),
           subsequently the line up was expanded with the addition of
           previously unknown guitarist Sean Eden to their line up. A
           deal with major label Elektra saw them achieve a modicum of
           success, and clinched them prestigious support slots, most
           notably on the Velvet Underground's reunion tour of 1994.
           They have also managed to get some equally prestigious
           guest stars on their albums, the late Sterling Morrison on
           Bewitched, and Tom Verlaine on Penthouse.

           In summer 1996 Luna replaced Stanley Demeski with Lee Wall.
           Lee was previously in NYC based band 44, who, as far as I
           know never released anything commercially. He has
           apparently recently been playing with 44's singer/guitarist
           Mark in the band Champale.

           In January 2000 Justin Harwood took a "leave of absence"
           from Luna and returned to NZ "to prepare for the arrival of
           a baby in his life". He was replaced by Matt Quigley
           formerly of pop duo Vaganza.

        c. Magnetophone
            o Damon Krukowski (guitar/vocals)
            o Naomi Yang (bass/vocals)
            o Jon Williams (guitar)
            o Chris Guttmacher (drums)

           At the time, Chris was also a member of Cul-de-Sac, a band
           he left about a year and a half ago He was also the
           original drummer in Bullet Lavolta. Jon Williams is
           probably best remembered as the original guitarist in
           Volcano Suns, but is also a very prolific producer and
           engineer. If memory serves, Magnetophone played a grand
           total of about two shows (one of which I saw) here in
           Boston. No recordings were released, although some do exist
           (produced by Jon Willaims) I hope this helps a little.

           Sean O'Brien

        d. Pierre Etoile

           Before the split of Galaxie 500, Naomi Yang and Damon
           Krukowski recorded an EP as Pierre Etoile (it was actually
           released shortly after Galaxie 500's demise). After Galaxie
           500 split they were encouraged by Kramer to opt for the
           less imaginative Damon and Naomi for subsequent releases.

        e. Damon and Naomi

           Damon Krukowski and Naomi Yang, have now released three
           exceptional albums and a number of equally exceptional
           singles, which they've fitted around their other careers as
           artists and publishers.

        f. Magic Hour

           Magic Hour is a project conceived by ex Crystallized
           Movements members Wayne Rogers and Kate Biggar, who
           recruited Naomi Yang and Damon Krukowski as their rhythm
           section, they released three albums of very long songs,
           which are of an acquired taste - but in my opinion a taste
           well worth acquiring. After the release of the third album
           in 1996 it was decided that Magic Hour had run it's course.
           Damon & Naomi returned to work as Damon & Naomi, and Wayne
           and Kate became the Major Stars. At the Terrastock festival
           in April 1997 Magic Hour re-united for a special one-off
           performance.

        g. Kramer

           (Mark) Kramer is all things to all men...
            o Record Company Boss

              He is the man behind both the Shimmy Disc and Kokopop
              record labels. He was the owner of Noise New York studio
              where Galaxie 500 did most of their recording, and is
              currently the owner of Noise New Jersey.

            o Record Producer

              As well as being the producer of all of Galaxie 500 and
              Damon and Naomi's records, he has produced an awful lot
              of the output of Shimmy Disc. Check out Grenadine and
              Low for starters.

            o Recording Artist

              Kramer has released records as a solo artist; As member
              of Shockabilly (with Eugene Chadbourne), Bongwater (with
              actress Ann Magnusson - Bongwater split in 1994 in a
              very acrimonious manner); and in collaboration with a
              myriad of other artists including Gong, Hugh Hopper,
              John Hall, Daevid Allen. He has also toured as a member
              of the Butthole Surfers. His recorded output is very
              variable, some of it is exquisite some of it is
              downright irritating, take your chances.

           Kramer could quite easily warrant a FAQ all of his own
           (anyone fancy taking on that task?).

        h. Cagney and Lacee

           Cagney and Lacee are Dean Wareham and his wife Claudia
           Silver, they released a single, Time/By The Way (I Still
           Love You) on No6 and followed it up with an album Six Feet
           of Chain, described on the cover as "An album of cover
           versions lovingly performed by Dean Wareham and Claudia
           Silver".

        i. Tuatara

           Tuatara are a side project of Justin Harwood's that also
           features Pete Buck of REM (more details to follow)

     2. Collaborators
        a. Angel Corpus Christi

           American female singer/accordionist. Released single "Je
           T'aime" with Dean Wareham.

        b. The Pastels

           Scottish "indie-pop" band who first came around in the mid
           80s. They were a big part of the C-86 scene in the UK -
           along with the Wedding Present and the BMX Bandits - and
           forerunners of the so-called "shambling" style: bands who
           wrote simple, heart-felt pop songs, and couldn't play their
           instruments all that well...the Pastels persevered, learned
           to play, and are generally considered grandparents of
           modern twee/indie-pop. Dean Wareham has guested on two
           Pastel's albums "Mobile Safari" and "Illumination".

        c. The 6ths/Stephen Merritt

           Stephen Merritt, the man behind the 6ths, is also the man
           behind the excellent Magnetic Fields. Dean Wareham provided
           vocals for one track on the first 6ths album "Wasps Nest".

        d. Pee Shy

           Pop and poetry collective formed in Florida in 1993. Dean
           Wareham produced Pee Shy's debut Album "Who Let All The
           Monkeys Out".

        e. Mercury Rev

           Rock band formed in 1989. Guitarist Grasshopper played on
           Dean Wareham's solo single "Anesthesia" and guested as Luna
           guitarist in the band's initial phase. Dean Wareham guested
           on Mercury Rev's "Car Wash Hair" single.

        f. Hugh Hopper

           Former member of seventies rock band Soft Machine. Naomi
           Yang co-wrote the Damon & Naomi track "14 Auspicious
           Dreams" with Hugh Hopper.

        g. Mutton Gun

           Mutton Gun is/was Justin Harwood, Gordon Rutherford,
           Justin's girlfriend Lisa, David Boyd (Hut Records UK
           mogul), and his girlfriend Sarah. Dean Wareham has guested
           on at least one of Mutton Gun's albums.

        h. Ivy

           US based popsters with French lead singer and a couple of
           albums under their belt. Dean Wareham guests on their
           "Apartment Life" album.

        i. Laetitia Sadier

           Vocalist from excellent avant garde pop sensations
           Stereolab. Guest vocalist on Luna's "Bonnie and Clyde".

        j. Ralph Carney

           A member of Tom Waits' backing band. Guested on sax on
           Galaxie 500's "Decomposing Trees" and on "Blue Thunder
           w/sax".

        k. Sterling Morrison

           Guitarist for the Velvet Underground, also worked for a
           time after VU's demise on a tugboat as referenced in the
           Galaxie 500 song of that name. Sadly died in 1995. Guested
           on "Friendly Advice" and "Great Jones Street" on Luna's
           second album "Bewitched".

        l. Tom Verlaine

           A founder member of influential 70s band Television, he has
           also released a number of solo albums. Guested on "Moon
           Palace" and "23 Minutes in Brussels" on Luna's third album
           "Penthouse".

        m. Tom Rapp

           Was the founder and main man of late 60s band Pearls Before
           Swine, between 1967 and 1973 he recorded nine albums of
           strange and wonderful folk-rock, at which point he retired
           from music. He was coaxed out of retirement in 1997 for a
           series of performances and has made some new recordings
           with the help of Damon & Naomi for a forthcoming
           retrospective collection. Damon & Naomi performed with Tom
           Rapp at the 1997 Terrastock festival, a track from which is
           available on the Ptolemaic Terrascope celebratory CD, All
           Access.

        n. Kickstand

           Kickstand were a NY/NJ underground pop trio featuring twin
           sisters Tammi & Torry Colichio and independent filmmaker,
           Jeff Feuerzeig (director of the feature length film - Half
           Japanese: The Band That Would Be King). Dean Wareham
           appeared on three tracks on Kickstand's Autostrada album.

        o. Batoh and Kurihara

           (Masaki) Batoh is the prime mover behind ecxellent Japanese
           psych-pop outfit Ghost, Kurihara is a sometime member of
           Ghost

     3. Cover Versions
        a. Galaxie 500
           1. Don't Let Our Youth Got To Waste

              Written by Jonathan Richman, originally recorded by The
              Modern Lovers. Initially available on "Original Modern
              Lovers" a collection of demos, a live version is now
              available on "Precise Modern Lovers Order" (Rounder).

           2. Isn't It A Pity

              Written and recorded by George Harrison on the album
              "All Things Must Pass" (Apple 1970) - which is currently
              available on a Capitol re-issue.

           3. Victory Garden

              Written and originally recorded by Red Krayola on "God
              Bless The Red Krayola And All Who Sail In Her" (1968)

           4. Ceremony

              Written but never released by Joy Division, later
              recorded by New Order. A live version performed by Joy
              Division is available on the album "Still"

           5. Listen The Snow Is Falling

              Written by Yoko Ono, originally recorded by John Lennon
              and Yoko Ono as the b-side of "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)"
              (Apple 1971). Currently available on the Rykodisc
              re-issue of John and Yoko's "Wedding Album".

           6. Here She Comes Now

              Written and originally recorded by The Velvet
              Underground on the album "White Light/White Heat". Still
              available.

           7. Cheese And Onions

              Written by Neil Innes and originally recorded by spoof
              Beatles band The Rutles and is available on "The Rutles"
              (Rhino).

           8. Final Day

              Written by Stuart Moxham, originally recorded by Young
              Marble Giants on a single (Rough Trade). Possibly now
              available on "Colossal Youth", a compilation of all of
              their recorded output.

           9. Rain

              Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney and originally
              recorded by the Beatles. Released as the b-side of the
              "Paperback Writer" single (Parlophone 1966). Currently
              available on "Past Masters Volume 2" (Capitol).

        b. Luna
           1. Indian Summer

              Written and originally recorded by Beat Happening on the
              album "Jamboree" (K 1988). Currently available on a Sub
              Pop re-issue.

           2. That's What You Always Say

              Written by Steve Wynn and originally recorded by Dream
              Syndicate on "Days Of Wine And Roses". Slash re-issue
              still available.

           3. Ride Into The Sun

              Written by Lou Reed and John Cale, originally recorded
              by The Velvet Underground. Available on "Another View".

           4. Dream Baby Dream

              Written by Martin Rev and Alan Vega, originally recorded
              by Suicide.

           5. Bonnie And Clyde

              Written by Serge Gainsbourg, originally recorded by
              Serge Gainsbourg and Brigitte Bardot.

           6. Thank You For Sending Me An Angel

              Written by David Byrne, originally recorded by Talking
              Heads on the album "More Songs About Buildings And Food"
              (Warner 1978). Still available.

           7. No Regrets

              Written and originally recorded by Tom Rush. Available
              on "Circle Game" (Elektra).

           8. Happy New Year

              Written and originally recorded by Shockabilly on the
              album "Heaven" (Fundamental 1985). Possibly still
              available on a Shimmy Disc re-issue. Shockabilly
              featured Eugene Chadbourne and Kramer.

           9. Outdoor Miner

              Written by Lewis and Colin Newman, originally recorded
              by Wire on the album "Chairs Missing" (Harvest 1978).
              Possibly available on an EMI/Harvest re-issue.

          10. Season Of The Witch

              Written and originally recorded by Donovan on the album
              "Sunshine Superman" (1966). Should be available on most
              cheap Donovan compilations.

          11. In The Flesh

              Written by Debbie Harry and Chris Stein, originally
              recorded by Blondie on the album "Blondie" (Private
              Stock 1976). Still available on a Chrysalis re-issue.

          12. Dance With Me

              Written by Jonathan Richman.

          13. Everybody's Talkin'

              Written and originally recorded by Fred Neil and
              recorded since by scores of people from Nillson to The
              Beautiful South to Leonard Nimmoy.

          14. Jealous Guy

              Written and originally performed by John Lennon

          15. Neon Lights

              Written and originally recorded by Kraftwerk on their
              album "The Man Machine" (1978), which is still
              available.

          16. Sweet Child O' Mine

              Written and originally recorded by Guns n' Roses on
              their album "Appetite For Destruction" (1987) which is
              still available.

          17. La Poupee Qui Fait Non

              Written by Michel Polnareff

          18. Fly Into The Sun Written and originally recorded by
              Jonathan Richman, the song should actually be called
              "Fly Into The Mystery" but appears to have become
              confused with an arlier Luna cover version "Ride Into
              The Sun".
        c. Damon & Naomi
           1. Memories

              Written by Hugh Hopper, originally recorded by Soft
              Machine.

           2. This Changing World

              Written by J C Oliver.

           3. Life Will Pass You By

              Written by C Darrow, originally recorded by
              Kaleidoscope.

           4. Who Am I

              Written by Joe MacDonald, originally recorded by Country
              Joe & The Fish.

           5. Whispering Pines

              Written by Richard Manuel and Robbie Robertson,
              originally recorded by The Band, on the album "The Band"
              (Capitol 1969). Still available.

           6. Awake In A Muddle

              Written and originally recorded by Ghost.

           7. Spirit Of Love

              Written by Clive Palmer, originally recorded by C.O.B.

           8. Translucent Carriages

              Written by Tom Rapp and recorded by Pearls Before Swine
              on their second album Balaklava, which is currently
              availabvle. Also a new version should appear on a Tom
              Rapp/Pearls Before Swine retrospective due out soon.

           9. I Shall Be Released

              Written and originally recorded by Bob Dylan. Currently
              available on a number of releases including "Greatest
              Hits Volume 2" and the Dylan and The Band album "Before
              The Flood".

          10. It's All Over Now Baby Blue

              Written and originally recorded by Bob Dylan

          11. Yoo Doo Right

              Written and originally recorded by Can

          12. After The Goldrush

              Written and originally recorded by Neil Young

        d. Magic Hour
           1. Sally Free And Easy

              Written by Cyril Tawney.

        e. Cagney and Lacee
           1. Time

              (details required)

           2. Be Mine

              Written and originally recorded by Martin Rev, on the
              album "See Me Riding" (ROIR 1995). Still available.

           3. Lovin' You

              Written by Ripperton and Rudolph, originally performed
              by Minnie Ripperton on the album "Perfect Angel". Still
              available.

           4. Six Feet of Chain

              Written and originally performed by Lee Hazlewood on the
              album "Trouble Is A Lonesome Town" (1963).

           5. The Last Goodbye

              (details required)

           6. By The Way

              Written and originally performed by Lee Hazlewood on the
              album "Forty" (1971).

           7. Greyhound Goin' Somewhere

              performed by Bobbie Gentry on her 1968 LP "Touch 'Em
              With Love" on Capitol Records.

           8. For the Sake of the Children
           9. Memphis

              Both of these songs were originally written for the
              excellent 1975 Robert Altman movie "Nashville", which
              used a convoluted set of story lines woven around the
              country music scene in Nashville to satirize American
              politics, entertainment, and the media culture. The
              movie was quite funny, acerbic, and sad. "For the Sake
              of the Children" was sung by actor Henry Gibson,
              formerly of Laugh-In. In "Nashville" Gibson played
              diminutive, hypocritical, sequined, hyper-patriotic
              country music icon Haven Hamilton whose
              family-values-turned-on-its-head theme song was "For the
              Sake of the Children (We Must Say Good-Bye)". "Memphis"
              was actually written by actress Karen Black, who played
              a second-tier singer destined to serve as perpetual
              stand-in for emotionally fragile superstar Barbara Jean,
              another icon who is accidentally assassinated at a
              political rally at the movie's end. "Memphis" was
              generally considered an egregiously bad song written by
              an amateur whose dislike for country music was evident
              from the song's sappiness. At the time it was generally
              thought that Altman let it into the film as an
              indulgence to Karen Black, but it is certainly a strange
              choice for a cover. Back in the 70's there was a
              soundtrack album to "Nahville", but it's probably long
              out of print.

              - Bill Jaynes

          10. I'm Not Sayin'

              Written and originally performed by Gordon Lightfoot on
              the album "Lightfoot!" (United Artists 1965). Currently
              available. More significantly perhaps, however, is that
              this song was Nico's first single (Immediate 1965).

          11. Borderline

              Written by Reggie Lucas and originally performed by
              Madonna.

     4. Discography and availability information The recorded works of
        all Galaxie 500 related artists, can be found in The Galaxie
        500 and related bands discography.
         o Galaxie 500
           Rykodisc have all three Galaxie 500 albums plus a box set,
           a compilation album and a very good live set available.
         o Damon & Naomi
           All Damon & Naomi albums are available on Sub Pop in the US
           and on Rykodisc in Europe. The Pierre Etoile EP has
           recently been re-issued on CD by Spanish label Elefant.
         o Luna
           Luna release their material on Beggars Banquet in the
           UK/Europe and Elektra everywhere else in the world - as far
           as I know all of their albums are currently available. In
           spring 1999 Luna were dropped by Elektra just prior to the
           release of The Days Of Our Nights. Luna have now signed to
           Jericho a Sire records imprint, who will be releasing
           Luna's latest album (The Days Of Our Nights) in the US.
         o Magic Hour
           Magic Hour released their material on Che in the UK (first
           two albums only) and Twisted Village in the US, as far as I
           know all three albums are still available.
         o Cagney and Lacee
           The Cagney and Lacee material was released on No.6 records
           and should still be available. A limited edition (500
           copies) 7" single was released by UK independent label
           Earworm.

  2. Frequently Asked Questions

     1. Where can I see ... play live?
        When are ... going to play in ...?

        As soon as I hear of any live dates I will put them on the
        Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi web page and post them on
        the mailing list.
        I DO NOT get informed as a matter of course by any of the
        bands and so I rely on people telling me and by keeping an eye
        on the official web pages. If anyone hears of any dates I'd be
        grateful if you could email them to me so that I can notify
        people via the web page, mailing list and newsgroups.

     2. Where can I find Galaxie 500/Luna/Damon & Naomi guitar tabs?

        The chords to most Galaxie 500, and quite a few Luna tracks
        are available on the Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi web
        page, you will also find links to other pages that contain
        tabs which I will add as and when I come across them.

     3. Didn't Galaxie 500 do a couple of Peel Sessions?
        Will they ever get released?

        Galaxie 500 recorded two sessions for the John Peel show - the
        ground breaking BBC radio show...
        Recorded 24th September 1989 - Broadcast 17th October 1989
         o Flowers
         o Blue Thunder
         o Decomposing Trees
         o Don't Let Our Youth Go To Waste (Richman)
        Recorded 30th October 1990 - Broadcast 4th November 1990
         o Moonshot (Buffy St Marie)
         o Submission (Sex Pistols)
         o When Will You Come Home
         o Final Day (Moxham) - (this version of Final Day has Naomi
           doing the vocal)

        According to an interview Damon & Naomi gave in Ptolemaic
        Terrascope (issue 23) these will "probably surface at some
        point".

     4. Why did Galaxie 500 split?

        The generally considered reasoning behind the split was simply
        that Dean Wareham decided he didn't want to be in the band
        anymore. Damon and Naomi gave a very thorough interview in
        "The Ptolemaic Terrascope" magazine (issue 23) where they give
        their version of the events that led to the split. As far as I
        know Dean hasn't given a full public explanation for his
        decision.

     5. Why were Luna called Luna2 (or Luna squared)?

        I beleive that a US new age singer was using the name Luna and
        so Lunapark was released as Luna2, after which an
        agreement/settlement was reached with the artist in question.

     6. Why did Stanley Demeski leave Luna?

        Stanley's reluctance to tour was the officially given reason
        for his departure from the band - these two quotes from
        interviews given to music magazine "Stomp and Stammer"
        (http://monsterbit.com/stammer/) give a bit more insight into
        the separation...

        "But I was never really in Luna. I was an employee of the band
        and I made it clear from the beginning that whenever we went
        on the road, I had to be paid. Then, they sort of ran out of
        money and at that point, they just kept bugging me to tour
        with them but I just wasn't that into it to be honest with
        you."
        Stanley Demeski - "Stomp & Stammer" - June 1997

        "He didn't like touring I guess that was true with everyone in
        The Feelies, but I got tired of begging and twisting his arm.
        And it was kind of always that way from the beginning, he made
        that sort of clear, that he would rather stay home."
        Dean Wareham - "Stomp & Stammer - September 1997

     7. Haven't I heard ... in a TV commercial?

        The Luna track "California (All The Way)" has appeared as the
        soundtrack to at least two TV commercials - Calvin Klein CK1
        (in the US) and American Express (in the UK).
        The Galaxie 500 track "Instrumental" from the album "On Fire"
        has recently (Sept 99) appeared in a US TV commercial for
        Acura cars.

     8. Haven't I heard ... in a film?

        Galaxie 500 songs have appeared in (unconfirmed)...
        Remembering Sex (aka: Getting Off) (1998 - dir: Julie Lynch)

        Luna songs/music have appeared in the following films...
        I Shot Andy Warhol (1996 - dir: Mary Harron) - Soundtrack
        available
        Mr Jealousy (1997 - dir: Noah Baumbach) - Soundtrack available
        Thursday (1998 - dir: Skip Woods)
        Irma Vep (1996 - dir: Olivier Assayas)

     9. What is a Galaxie 500? It's a make of car. If you're really
        interested check out this page on Yahoo -
        http://www.yahoo.com/Recreation/Automotive/Makes_and_Models/Fo
        rd/Galaxie/
  3. Internet

     1. Web Pages
         o Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon & Naomi
           Excellent (but I would say that!) and thorough web pages
           with full discography, lyrics and the home of this FAQ
           http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/
         o Rykodisc's Galaxie 500 web pages
           Very smart web page promoting Rykidisc's re-issue of the
           Galaxie 500 back-catalogue, with a good discography,
           pictures and sounds.
           http://home.inreach.com/jbakken/Galaxie500/ or
           http://www.slowriver.com/3/features/g500/
         o Damon and Naomi on Sub Pop
           Damon & Naomi's Sub Pop web site has recently been
           relaunched Flashy new graphics and the usual pics and
           sounds, as well as pieces on Galaxie 500, Magic Hour and
           Exact Change. No news section though. Sub Pop also have a
           tours section which will normally have any D+N dates
           mentioned.
           http://www.subpop.com/bands/damon+naomi/newwebsite/
           The old and out of date version is still up and running...
           http://www.subpop.com/bands/damon+naomi/website/
         o Javier Balanche's Wondrous Web of Damon & Naomi
           Half finished, graphic intensive and in Spanish D+N web
           page http://www.geocities.com/Paris/Metro/9915/
         o Luna at Fuzzy Wuzzy
           Originally started by band member Justin Harwood as a
           repository for various pics and snippets it became the
           band's official site when the rather tame site that
           origianally held that title finally gave up the ghost. It
           was been sporadically updated with pictures and articles by
           band members.
           In January 2000 Justin, having left the band, handed over
           the reins of the site to (I believe) a Jericho records
           employee and a prettied up Fuzzy Wuzzy appeared.
           The band will still have a major input into the web sites
           content and hopefully Fuzzy Wuzzy will be more regularly
           updated.
           http://www.fuzzywuzzy.com/
         o The ex-official Luna web page
           This site has been officially abandoned, while still
           available for viewing there is very little worth visiting
           for, particularly with Fuzzy Wuzzy now relaunched.
           http://www.triangle23.com/luna/
         o Chris's Luna discography
           Complete Luna discography with lots of scans. All on one
           page so make a cup of tea while you wait for it to load.
           Currently offline for a refit.
         o Luna on the Beggars Banquet site
           Small but neat page by Luna's UK record label. A quick
           scour round the Beggars Banquet site will also throw up a
           RealVideo Luna video.
           http://www.beggars.com/luna/luna.html
         o Luna on the Elektra site
           Small out of date (surprise) page by Luna's ex-US/World
           record label.
           http://www.elektra.com/alternative_club/luna/luna.html
         o Magic Hour on the Che site
           This is a tidy one page affair with details of record
           releases.
           http://www.che.co.uk/magichour/index.html
         o The Shrine
           A lovingly compiled collection of photographs of Dean
           Wareham from various stages of his career.
           http://www.angelfire.com/on2/wareham/
         o A collection of links...
           ...to pages with reviews interviews and features can be
           found on the links page of the Galaxie 500 - Luna - Damon &
           Naomi web site
           http://www.aald.demon.co.uk/galaxie/links.html
     2. Mailing Lists and Message/Bulletin Boards
         o The Galaxie 500 Mailing List
           a lively debate forum for all things Galaxie 500 related
           and more To subscribe email majordomo@listbox.com with
           "subscribe galaxie <your email address>" or "subscribe
           galaxie-digest <your email address>" in the BODY of the
           email. Any problems feel free to email me at
           andy@aald.demon.co.uk
         o Fuzzy Wuzzy Mailing List
           The official Luna news and information mailing list
           recently mislaid all the email addresses. If you wish to
           receive Luna news from the horses mouth you'll have to sign
           up again. Email sideshow@fuzzywuzzy.com and ask them nicely
           to add you to the list.
           Given that this was Justin's little baby and that he is
           currently on hiatus from LUNA we'll have to wait and see
           what will become of it.
         o Luna Message Board A newly established and splendidly fizzy
           web based discussion can be found at
           http://disc.server.com/Indices/67663.html
     3. Newsgroups In the following Newsgroups Galaxie 500 (etc.)
        discussion is acceptable...
         o alt.music.galaxie-500
         o alt.music.luna
           both of the above newsgroups have been pretty much nothing
           but spam for a few months now. Best join the Galaxie 500
           mailing list!
         o alt.music.independent
           Lively, medium/high traffic newsgroup, with a stress on
           independent, so Luna debate may be frowned upon by Indie
           purists.
         o alt.music.alternative
           Very busy newsgroup, and only recommended if you can cope
           with tedious debates about mainstream alternative Rock.

  4. Credits

      o Thanks to gary <gruisinger@CCTR.UMKC.EDU> for donating a
        particularly good answer for question 1.1, I've never been
        able to describe Galaxie 500.
      o Thanks to Sean O'Brien <critual@aol.com> for filling me in on
        the Magnetophone project.
      o Thanks to cruster@seanet.com for donating a fine yet concise
        history of The Pastels.
      o Thanks to Rob Gronette, Steve Beeho, Rhys Davies, Brent
        Aliverti, Jonathan Litchfield, Static50 - for correcting
        mistakes and filling holes.
      o Thanks to Bill Jaynes for filling me in on the two songs from
        the film "Nashville" that were covered by Cagney and Lacee,
        and to Simon Murphy for a bit of "Greyhound Goin' Somewhere"
        info.
      o Thanks to the subscribers and contributors of the Galaxie 500
        mailing list from whom a large chunk of this information was
        gleaned.
      o Please mail andy@aald.demon.co.uk with any corrections,
        additions or comments to me for later versions of this FAQ.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (c) 1997-2000 by Andrew Aldridge, all rights reserved.
This FAQ may be freely distributed by any means as long as there is no
charge (except to cover materials) and that this copyright notice
remains intact.
This FAQ may not be distributed for financial gain.
This FAQ may not be included in commercial collections or compilations
without the express permission of the author.


